biological more or less determinism why  are they so afraid of LGBT plus  propaganda? I think their secret belief  is that they can be easily denaturalized  which means that they really believe  even too much that sex is a sexual  construct you know and then you can like  overturn it with on the other hand those  what I oppose on the opposite side it's  not of course not LGBT as such is just  correct me if I'm wrong maybe if you  will be too bored with nature we can go  into a debate later in this direction  like uh I think the choice between on  the one hand your what appears as  biological  sexual identity and  what you the term that is always used or  regularly used and I'm not like it is  that that you should be free to decide  to declare what you feel sorry but for  me my greatest reproach to a certain  LGBT plus ideology which is we are free  to choose blah blah construct  reconstruct ourselves is that it makes  it too easy too easy in the sense in  what sense in the sense that many no  wonder many  uh LGBT plus some some of are very  Right. Uh people they hate  psychoanalysis. It's patriarchal,  binary, all you want. But I think  precisely  the trans topic makes it clear how  traumatic inconsistent subjectivity is.  Like you can feel one thing, you are  substantially another thing. Uh did you  see I forgot the title. There was a  Belgian movie fiction but based on a  real case about a boy who wants to  become a girl and with great support  from his her uh colleagues, doctors,  parents even  he does it but it involves so many  traumas you know. So okay let's not get  lost. We have nature to deal with. But  my point is this one. Yes, I agree. Your  sexual identity is a matter of in some  deep sense of free choice. But the  notion of freedom here is very radical.  Let me mention a simple case. Let's say  you are biologically. You appear as a  man. You want to become whatever you  want. Let's say to simplify a woman. But  you know this is not like going to a  party and say sorry yes till yesterday I  was eating cheesecake now I want  strawberry cake. It's something very  traumatic which involves a lot of even  physical suffering surgery traumas and  so on. So the freedom we are dealing  here it's not a simple freedom of  choice. It's really something like  unconscious choice. And I more and more  think that the big contribution of Freud  to theory of choice is that in our  unconscious we are much more free than  in our conscious self awareness. The the  most radical choices we experience them  as necessity. The true choice is when  you feel about something I can't do it  otherwise. Although it's my free choice  but  radical freedom appears as fake if you  want and all these things are so  complicated I don't know if you know it  something happened it was a big trauma  in my as your beloved president X maybe  future Trump put it sit of a country  Slovenia  uh there was a really tragic hate my  wife knew that boy girl uh a young young  already student okay early s boy  successfully became a woman  he went through all the surgery blah  blah blah no problems parents accepted  it friends blah blah then something  happened on a certain day she now she  got official letter from uh from city  authorities where you are registered as  a citizen that she is now officially a  woman. She killed herself instantly.  You see how apparently totally external  thing like how it's registered by the  big other of state institutions ruined  everything. So the way the reason I  think  Freud can still tell us a lot Freud and  today's Freudians precisely about  transgender identity I think that they  are the most free people but they pay a  price for it great price and that's  where they need not our patronizing  support but uh uh  uh you know when we have this uh  polymics about how uh sexual identity  should be playful like today I'm gay  tomorrow I'm heterero then I play  another game and so on doesn't isn't  something u I put it uh patronizingly  humiliating in this all all  it somehow ignores the deep personal  traumas, complexities, and even I would  have put it the real profound suffering  of  changing your sexual identity. That's  the that's the problem. And I think  again psychoanalysis has a role to play  here. But enough of this. Let me begin.  I want to you know what's my ideal? I  did it once in Belgrade. I think I went  on and on with introductions. So that  for one hour and a half and there was no  talk,  just introductions. I I loved it.